Strings have a join method that's very
useful for producing output from a list,
and in fact, it can be used with any
iterable. What I'm going to do is use the
first for loop in our nospam program, for
this example. What I'm going to do is
uncomment the first loop, then I'm going
to delete the rest of the code below that.
Alright, now I've done that, I'm
going to run the program to remind
ourselves of the output, and you can see
that we've got the eight meals printed out,
with the spam removed. Each line of
the output is enclosed in square
brackets, and each string in the list is
enclosed in a single quote - that's how
Python prints lists by default. Now we
can use join to tidy this up, so let's have
a go of doing that. I'm going to change
line 17 to type, in those parentheses,
double quotes comma and a space and
double quotes. Then I'm going to type dot
join, and then meal in parentheses. So
let's run that and then I'll explain
what it's doing. So you can see that, now
that we've run that, the output was what
we wanted at the end of the previous
video. The items in each meal are printed
on the same line, separated by a comma
and a space. Now the comma and space
come from the string that we called join
on, on line 17. This example might be a
bit confusing. We can see that join is
useful, but you may find it hard to
understand what it's doing, because we're
using it inside a loop. Let's see some
simpler examples. I'm going to create a
new Python file. I don't want to call
the file join, because that's the name of
the method we're using.
Avoid using Python names for your files
because it can cause problems. Right, so
I'm gonna call this one joining_things.py.
We're gonna start by creating a list and
then printing out its items. So I'm going
to type flowers is equal to, left square
bracket, and on the next line I'm going
to start typing , I'll start
with Daffodil comma, next line Evening
Primrose comma - obviously, these are in
double quotes, next line Hydrangea,
comma to go to the next line, Iris on the next
line comma. Next line,
Lavender, next line, Sunflower, next line,
one last one, Tiger Lily.
Then we'll print them out by typing for flower in flowers:
print flower, and there's no surprises
when I run that. We get each of the
flowers printed out. What we've done
there is, iterated over the list and
printed each item. The join method
actually takes care of iterating for us.
We give it an iterable and it joins all
the items in the iterable. It uses the
string we call it on as the separator.
Now a list is an iterable, so we can pass
our flowers list to the join method. So
what I'm going to do is comment out this
for loop. Alright, so I'm going to type
separator is equal to double quotes - I'm
going to use a pipe character, with a
space to the left and right of it.
Then I'm going to type, on the next line, output is
equal to separator
dot join, then in parentheses, flowers.
Then I'm going to print output.
Now we could write all that on one line,
but I've split each part up to make it
easier to understand. Join is a string
method, and we start with a string
on line 14. I called a string separator, so
it's clear how the string is used.
On line 15, we call the join method. That
will iterate over the flowers list and
create a string containing each flower,
separated by space bar space. The bar is
also known as pipe - I refer to that as
the pipe character bur bar is
another word for it. Now I'm using dot
notation there. Join is a method of the
str class, and separator is a string. So
if I run the program now, and that's the
output we get. Each of the flowers has
been joined into a single string,
with space bar space between each one. Now we
could use a comma and a space instead,
so let's change that. Remove one of the
spaces, then just change that to a comma
space. Run that. This time, as you can
see, there's a comma and a space between
each flower. Now note that we haven't had
to use a for loop here. Join iterates
over the list for us. Alright, so that's
the join method. It creates a string from
a list, and separates each item with the
string that it's called on. So experiment
with different lists and strings.
Remember you can also use string literals,
so you could type, line 18,
print parentheses, comma in double
quotes, then dot join, and in parentheses,
flowers. If you run that,
and you can see that's separated each
flower with just a comma. Now before I
finish the video, there is one thing to
be aware of - all the items in the
iterable must be strings, if you want to
join the items. For example, if I go back
up to our list, and I add a number - an int -
to our list down here,
the code will actually crash. So if we run that, you can
see we've got an error. Join can't join
ints to the string that it produces. Alright, so let's finish the video now, with
a quick look at what the documentation
says about lists. I'm going to paste the
link into a into the browser.
Right, so the first paragraph says that
lists are typically used to store
collections of homogeneous items.
Homogeneous, here, means items of the same type.
Our original list was homogeneous
because all the items were strings.
So I'll switch back to our code, so we can
see our list again.
So lists are typically used to store homogeneous
items, but you are free to store just
about anything you want in them. Just be
aware of the problems that can cause,
when you come to process the list. Our
code worked fine when all the items were
strings, but you saw it crash when we
added in integer value. Now this is
something we often get asked about, so
I'm taking the opportunity to clarify it here.
Python will let you store different
types in a list. What the documentation
is saying, is that lists are intended to
be homogeneous, but that's not enforced
by the compiler. Sometimes there's a good case for
storing different types in a list - just
be aware that you may run into problems
processing the items in a list, if
they're not all of a similar type.
Alright, so let's end the video here. In the
next one, we'll look at the opposite of join
- the split method. See you in the
next video.